= Changes

== 2013-10-15 (0.0.15)
* Added the option: <tt>--set-display-name</tt> to <tt>server create</tt> (Florin Stan, 5 Aug 2013)
* Added the option: <tt>--keypair</tt> to <tt>server create</tt> (Florin Stan, 31 Jul 2013)
* Added subcommand: <tt>cs volume create</tt> (Jeremy Baumont, 17 Jul 2013)
* Added the option: <tt>--disk</tt> to <tt>server create</tt> (Stanislav Voroniy (voroniys) 13 Jun 2013)
* Added subcommands: <tt>cs keypair list</tt>, <tt>cs keypair create</tt>, <tt>cs keypair delete</tt> and adding basic zone check. (Sebastian Goasguen (runseb) 29 May 2013)
* Bugfix: changed output name to password (Warren Bain, 26 May 2013)
* Bugfix: various bugfixes and fixing bootstrap context (bacoboy, 22 Apr 2013)


== 2013-04-14 (0.0.14)
* Added bash/addinstance.sh script in onder to ease instance creation from cli.

* Added the cs_base.rb to merge all common options.
* Added the cs_base_list.rb to merge all common options and functions for the list commands.
* Added the option: <tt>-P</tt> / <tt>--cloudstack-project</tt> to the following commands: <tt>account list</tt>, <tt>firewallrule list</tt>, <tt>hosts</tt>,
  <tt>iso list</tt>, <tt>network list</tt>, <tt>router list</tt>, <tt>server list</tt>, <tt>template list</tt>, <tt>volume list</tt>

* Added subcommands: <tt>account list</tt>, <tt>cluster list</tt>, <tt>config list</tt>, <tt>disk create</tt>,
  <tt>disk list</tt>, <tt>domain list</tt>,<tt>firewallrule list</tt>, <tt>host list</tt>,
  <tt>iso list</tt>, <tt>ostype list</tt>, <tt>oscategory list</tt>, <tt>pod list</tt>, <tt>project list</tt>,
  <tt>service create</tt>, <tt>template create</tt>, <tt>template extract</tt>, <tt>template register</tt>, <tt>router list</tt>, <tt>user list</tt>, <tt>volume list</tt>

* Updated subcommands: <tt>hosts</tt>, <tt>network list</tt>, <tt>server list</tt>, <tt>service list</tt>,
  <tt>template list</tt>, <tt>zone list</tt>

* Added option: <tt>--filter</tt> to all list commands. This filters your output on the fields that you specify.
  Filter can be a string <tt>'name'</tt> or regexp <tt>'/name/i'</tt>. Example: <tt>--filter "instancename:/i-xxx/i,accountname:jenkins"</tt>
  Additional filters can be added by separating them using a comma ',' 
    NOTE: --filter is done client side, filtering by --name or --keyword is faster and is done server side.

* Added option: <tt>--fields</tt> to all list commands. Here you specify the fields that you want to display in your output.
  Default outputs will be shown if no fields are defined. Example: <tt>--fields "name, instancename, domain"</tt>

* Added option: <tt>--noheader</tt> to all list commands.
  This will remove the header from the output.

* Added option: <tt>--fieldlist</tt> to all list commands. This will display the fields that you can use to filter or
  use in your output. Example will be given with the first result that you specify in your filter.

* Added option: <tt>--listall</tt> to: <tt>account list</tt>, <tt>domain list</tt>, <tt>firewallrule list</tt>, <tt>hosts</tt>, <tt>iso list</tt>,
  <tt>network list</tt>, <tt>project list</tt>, <tt>router list</tt>, <tt>server list</tt>, <tt>template list</tt>, <tt>user list</tt>, <tt>volume list</tt>.

* Added option: <tt>--keyword</tt> to: <tt>account list</tt>, <tt>cluster list</tt>, <tt>config list</tt>, <tt>disk list</tt>, <tt>firewallrule list</tt>,
  <tt>hosts</tt>, <tt>iso list</tt>, <tt>network list</tt>, <tt>ostype list</tt>, <tt>oscategory list</tt>, <tt>pod list</tt>, <tt>project list</tt>, <tt>router list</tt>,
  <tt>server list</tt>, <tt>service list</tt>, <tt>user list</tt>, <tt>volume list</tt>, <tt>zone list</tt>.

* Added option: <tt>--name</tt> to: <tt>account list</tt>, <tt>cluster list</tt>, <tt>config list</tt>, <tt>disk list</tt>, <tt>host list</tt>, <tt>hosts</tt>, <tt>iso list</tt>,
  <tt>pod list</tt>, <tt>project list</tt>, <tt>router list</tt>, <tt>server list</tt>, <tt>service list</tt>, <tt>volume list</tt>

* Added option: <tt>--action</tt> to: <tt>server list</tt> which <tt>start</tt>, <tt>stop</tt> or <tt>destroy</tt> the machines based on the result.
* Added option: <tt>--cloudstack-password</tt> to let cloudstack generate the password (only works if your template supports this.)
* Added option: <tt>--ipfwd-rules</tt> and <tt>--fw-rules</tt> to: <tt>server create</tt>
* Fixed delay-loading.
* Fixed <tt>-F json</tt> / <tt>--format json</tt> option for every list command.
* Fixed <tt>--no-bootstrap</tt> option to ignore the chef bootstrap
* Fixed default bootstrap template to: <tt>chef-full</tt>


== 2012-11-29 (0.0.13)
* Windows support
  https://github.com/CloudStack-extras/knife-cloudstack/issues/31
* Support for Projects
* HTTPS support 

== 2012-05-17 (0.0.12)
* Adding option to disable public IP allocation on server create
  https://github.com/CloudStack/knife-cloudstack/pull/8
* Fix whitespace issue in network names
  https://github.com/CloudStack/knife-cloudstack/pull/7

== 2011-11-03 (0.0.11)
* Added LICENSE file and licensing headers to source. No feature changes.

== 2011-10-13 (0.0.10)
* Support for multi-homed VMs: The --networks option for the <tt>server create</tt> command takes a comma-separated list
  of network offering names. The created VM will have one nic per network, with nics assigned to networks in the order
  specified (e.g. the first network in the list will be assigned to eth0, the second to eth1 and so on). The --networks
  option replaces the --network option, which supported a single network name.
* The <tt>server list</tt> command now shows the VM 'displayname' in parentheses when the displayname is defined and is
  different than the VM name.
* Public IP logic has been updated to support multi-homed VMs. It now uses the first nic attached to a network with the
  'default' value set to true as the primary interface.
   
== 2011-08-30 (0.0.9)
* Added subcommands: <tt>server start</tt>, <tt>server stop</tt> and <tt>server reboot</tt>.
* Updated the <tt>hosts</tt> command to return short hostnames and FQDNs. Also added comments where needed so the output
  can be directly pasted into /etc/hosts.

== 2011-08-06 (0.0.8)
* Changed cloudstack async command timeout from 60 to 300 seconds.

== 2011-07-21 (0.0.7)
* Fixed http_request actions in <tt>stack create</tt>.

== 2011-07-15 (0.0.6)
* The <tt>server delete</tt> command now deletes the chef node and client if their names match the fqdn of the server.
* Added the <tt>stack create</tt> and <tt>stack delete</tt> commands for bulk creation and deletion of servers using a
  JSON definition file. These commands are still experimental and subject to change. See README.rdoc for details.
* Added a <tt>hosts</tt> command, which lists the public ip address and fqdn of all servers in /etc/hosts file format.
* Fixed nil reference bug in <tt>server list</tt> command.

== 2011-06-05 (0.0.5)
* Added <tt>--port-rules</tt> option to the <tt>cs server create</tt> command. It accepts a list of port forwarding
  rules to be created for the server (only applies to servers on a virtual network). See 'Port forwarding rules for
  virtual networks' in README.rdoc for details.

== 2011-06-01 (0.0.4)
* Fixed ssh detection bug.

== 2011-05-30 (0.0.3)

* Added support for virtual networks. A public IP address is allocated for each new server in a virtual network
  and an ssh port forwarding rule is created. The IP is released when the server is destroyed as long as it doesn't
  have forwarding rules for any servers other than the one being deleted.
* Default network is now detected automatically. If there is more than one network marked as 'default' for an
  account, the first Direct network is preferred.

== 2011-05-22 (0.0.2)

* Added subcommands: <tt>service list</tt>, <tt>template list</tt>, <tt>network list</tt> and <tt>zone list</tt>.
* Removed -H (and --hostname) option from the <tt>cs server create</tt> command. The host name is now the first
  argument to the command: <tt>knife cs server create myhostname</tt>. If a host name is not specified, CloudStack
  will use an auto-generated name.
* Added --no-bootstrap option to the server create command. This prevents Chef from being installed on the new server.
* Fixed help banners (commands were shown as <tt>knife cloudstack ...</tt> instead of <tt>knife cs ...</tt>).
* Added README.rdoc.

== 2011-05-15 (0.0.1)

* Initial release
