= knife-cloudstack

== DESCRIPTION:

This is the Edmunds Knife plugin for CloudStack. This plugin gives Knife the ability to create, bootstrap and manage
CloudStack instances.

== INSTALLATION:
This plugin is distributed as a Ruby Gem. To install it, run:

    gem install knife-cloudstack

Depending on your system's configuration, you may need to run this command with root privileges.

== CONFIGURATION:
In order to communicate with the CloudStack API you will have to tell Knife about your CloudStack API Key, your Secret Key and the URL of the API endpoint.
The easiest way to accomplish this is to create some entries in your <tt>knife.rb</tt> file:

    knife[:cloudstack_url] = "http://yourcloudstackserver.com:8080/client/api
    knife[:cloudstack_api_key]  = "Your CloudStack API Key"
    knife[:cloudstack_secret_key] = "Your CloudStack Secret Key"

If your knife.rb file will be checked into a SCM system (ie readable by others) you may want to read the values from environment variables:

    knife[:cloudstack_url] = "#{ENV['CLOUDSTACK_URL']}"
    knife[:cloudstack_api_key] = "#{ENV['CLOUDSTACK_API_KEY']}"
    knife[:cloudstack_secret_key] = "#{ENV['CLOUDSTACK_SECRET_KEY']}"

You also have the option of passing your CloudStack URL and API/Secret Keys into the individual knife subcommands using the <tt>-U</tt> (or <tt>--cloudstack-url</tt>),
<tt>-A</tt> (or <tt>--cloudstack-api-key </tt>) <tt>-K</tt> (or <tt>--cloudstack-secret-key</tt>) command options
    # provision a new small RHEL 5.6 webserver
    knife cs server create my-server -r 'role[webserver]' -S "small" -T "RHEL 5.6 Base" -A 'Your CloudStack API Key' -K "Your CloudStack Secret Key" --distro "rhel5-gems"

Additionally the following options may be set in your <tt>knife.rb</tt>:

* knife[:cloudstack_service]
* knife[:cloudstack_template]
* knife[:cloudstack_zone]
* knife[:cloudstack_proxy]
* knife[:cloudstack_no_ssl_verify]
* knife[:distro] 
* knife[:template_file]

== Public Clouds (Tata InstaCompute, Ninefold etc):
To get this plugin to work in public clouds, it is essential that the virtual network (and router) be allocated to the account. Cloudstack clouds automatically creates a virtual network  when the first VM is requested to be created. Hence, it is essential to create the first VM (of a newly created account) manually(which can be terminated immediately if not required) to ensure the virtual network is created.

== SUBCOMMANDS:

This plugin provides the following Knife subcommands.  Specific command options can be found by invoking the subcommand with a <tt>--help</tt> flag

=== knife cs <command> list

<tt>--filter</tt>               Filters your output on the fields that you specify. Filter can be a string 'name' or regexp '/name/i'
    Example: knife cs server list --filter "instancename:/i-xxx/i, account:accname"

<tt>--fields</tt>               The fields that you want to display in your output. Default outputs will be shown if no fields are defined.
    Example: knife cs server list --fields "name, instancename, domain"

<tt>--fieldlist</tt>            This will display all information returned by the cloudstack API. These fields can be used within the <tt>--fields</tt> or <tt>--filter</tt> to create custom output.
The data displayed is based on first result returned in your output. You can get other result by using the <tt>--filter</tt> option.

<tt>--noheader</tt>             this will remove the column header from the output.


=== knife cs server create

Provisions a new server in CloudStack and then performs a Chef bootstrap (using the SSH protocol).  The goal of the bootstrap is to get Chef installed on the target
system so it can run Chef Client with a Chef Server. The main assumption is a baseline OS installation exists (provided by the provisioning). It is primarily
intended for Chef Client systems that talk to a Chef server.  By default the server is bootstrapped using the 'chef-full' template (default bootstrap option for knife,
(Ref. http://docs.opscode.com/knife_bootstrap.html). This can be overridden using the <tt>-d</tt> or <tt>--template-file</tt> command options.
VM provided with <tt>--no-bootstrap</tt> option have no forwarded ports or forwared ip rules (in case <tt>--static-nat</tt> is used).

By default, new servers are allocated a public IP address mapping to the CloudStack private IP address. If you do not want this behavior, pass the <tt>--no-public-ip</tt> option.

==== Port forwarding rules for virtual networks
The <tt>--port-rules</tt> option takes a comma separated list of port forwarding rules. These rules are created on the
virtual public ip address of the server. Note that this option only applies to servers using a virtual network; it is
ignored if the server's public ip address is on a direct attached network.

Port forwarding rules have the syntax <tt>PUBLIC_PORT[:PRIVATE_PORT[:PROTOCOL]]</tt>. <tt>PRIVATE_PORT</tt> and
<tt>PROTOCOL</tt> are optional. The default value of <tt>PRIVATE_PORT</tt> is <tt>PUBLIC_PORT</tt> and the default
<tt>PROTOCOL</tt> is 'TCP'.
For example, a rule to forward from public port 80 to private port 7000 would look like <tt>80:7000:TCP</tt>.
Since 'TCP' is the default protocol, the rule can be shortened to <tt>80:7000</tt>. A rule can even be shortened to a
single number when the public and private ports are the same. For example, a rule to forward from public port 25 to
private port 25 can be stated as simply <tt>25</tt>. A list of such rules for a webserver might look like
<tt>80,443</tt>.

==== IP forwarding rules
The <tt>--ipfwd-rules</tt> option takes a comma separated list of ip forwarding rules. These rules are created on public ip appdress assigned obtained with <tt>--static-nat</tt> option.
(Ref. http://cloudstack.apache.org/docs/api/apidocs-4.0.0/root_admin/createIpForwardingRule.html)

Ip forwarding rules have the syntax <tt>START_PORT[:END_PORT[:PROTOCOL]]</tt>. <tt>END_PORT</tt> and <tt>PROTOCOL</tt> are optional.
The default value of <tt>END_PORT</tt> is <tt>START_PORT</tt> and the default <tt>PROTOCOL</tt> is 'TCP'.
For example, a rule to forward ports range from 1024 to 10000 would look like <tt>1024:10000:TCP</tt>.
Since 'TCP' is the default protocol, the rule can be shortened to <tt>1024:10000</tt>. A rule can even be shortened to a
single number when the start and end ports are the same. For example, a rule to forward port 22 can be stated as simply <tt>22</tt>. A list of such rules for a webserver might look like <tt>80,443</tt>.

==== Create Firewall Rule for given ip address
The <tt>-f, --fw-rules</tt> option takes a comma separated list of firewall rules which are applied to the public ip address assigned to the current server.

Firewall rules have the syntax <tt>PROTOCOL[:CIDR_LIST[:START_PORT[:END_PORT]]]</tt>. <tt>START_PORT</tt> and <tt>END_PORT</tt> must not be specified when <tt>PROTOCOL</tt> is <tt>ICMP</tt>, <tt>CIDR_LIST</tt> is always optional.
The default value of <tt>END_PORT</tt> is <tt>START_PORT</tt>, the default <tt>CIDR_LIST</tt> is '0.0.0.0/0'.
For example, a rule to open firewall for port 80 to everyone would look like <tt>TCP::80</tt> and a rule to open ICMP to internal network would look like <tt>ICMP:10.0.0.0/8</tt>.

=== knife cs server delete

Deletes an existing server in the currently configured CloudStack account.  <b>PLEASE NOTE</b> - this does not delete
the associated node and client objects from the Chef server.

=== knife cs server list

Displays a list of all servers in the currently configured CloudStack account.  <b>PLEASE NOTE</b> - this shows all
servers associated with the cloudstack account including servers that are not registered with a Chef server.

<tt>--listall</tt>              This will list all the servers, depending on the account that you are using.

<tt>--keyword</tt>              Filters your output on the instance name that you specify: 
    Example: --keyword "i-324", This will display all servers with <tt>'i-324'</tt> inside the instancename.

<tt>--name</tt>                         Filters your output on the name that you specify. 
    Example: --name "webserver", This will display all servers that contains 'webserver' inside the hostname.

<tt>--action</tt>               This action will be executed on the output of the list command. Actions can be start, stop or destroy.

=== knife cs network list
Displays a list of all networks available in the currently configured CloudStack account. A network can be specified
when creating a new server by passing the network name as an argument to the -W (or --network) option of the
<tt>knife cs server create</tt> command.

<tt>--listall</tt>              This will list all the networks, depending on the account that you are using.

<tt>--keyword</tt>              Filters your output on the keyword that you specify. 
    Example: --keyword "network1", This will display all networks with 'network1' inside the name.

=== knife cs service list
Displays a list of all service offerings available in the currently configured CloudStack account. A service offering
can be specified when creating a new server by passing the name as an argument to the -S (or --service) option of the
<tt>knife cs server create</tt> command.

<tt>--keyword</tt>              Filters your output on the service name, just like <tt>--name</tt> here below.

<tt>--name</tt>                 Filters your output on the name that you specify. 
    Example: --name "medium" or --keyword "medium", This will display all cpu service offerings with 'medium' inside the name.

=== knife cs template list
Displays a list of all templates in the currently configured CloudStack account. Featured templates are displayed by default.
Use the -F (or --filter) option to use a different filter. The allowable filter values are:

* featured - templates that are featured and are public (this is the default)
* self - templates that have been registered/created by the owner
* self-executable - templates that have been registered/created by the owner that can be used to deploy a new VM
* executable - all templates that can be used to deploy a new VM
* community - templates that are public

A template can be specified when creating a new server by passing the template name as an argument to the -T
(or --template) option of the <tt>knife cs server create</tt> command.

<tt>--listall</tt>              This will list all the templates, depending on the account that you are using.

=== knife cs template create
Creates a template based on a volumeID

=== knife cs template extract
Returns a link where an extractable template can be downloaded

=== knife cs template register
Creates a template based on a file

=== knife cs volume create
Creates a volume based on a name

=== knife cs zone list
Displays a list of all zones available in the currently configured CloudStack account. A zone can be specified
when creating a new server by passing the zone name as an argument to the -Z (or --zone) option of the
<tt>knife cs server create</tt> command.

<tt>--keyword</tt>              Filters your output on the keyword that you specify. 
    Example: --keyword "zone1", This will display all zones with 'zone1' inside the name

=== knife cs hosts
Convenience command that displays the public ip address and fqdn for all servers. Matches /etc/hosts file format.

<tt>--listall</tt>              This will list all the servers, depending on the account that you are using.

<tt>--keyword</tt>              Filters your result based on a keyword.

<tt>--name</tt>                 Filters your output on the name that you specify.

==== knife cs account list
Displays all accounts that are currently in your cloudstack environment.

<tt>--listall</tt>              This will list all the possible results, depending on the account that you are using.

<tt>--keyword</tt>               Filters your result based on a keyword.

<tt>--name</tt>                  Filters your output on the name that you specify.

==== knife cs cluster list
Displays all clusters that are currently available in your cloudstack environment.

<tt>--keyword</tt>               Filters your result based on a keyword.

<tt>--name</tt>                  Filters your output on the name that you specify.

==== knife cs config list
Displays all the configuration settings that are configured inside the cloudstack environment.

<tt>--keyword</tt>               Filters your result based on a keyword.

<tt>--name</tt>                  Filters your output on the name that you specify.

==== knife cs disk list
Displays all the disks that are available within cloudstack.

<tt>--keyword</tt>               Filters your result based on a keyword.

<tt>--name</tt>                  Filters your output on the name that you specify.

==== knife cs domain list
Displays all domains within the cloudstack environment.

<tt>--listall</tt>              This will list all the domains, depending on the account that you are using.

==== knife cs firewallrule list
Displays all firewall rules that are currently active within your cloudstack environment.

<tt>--listall</tt>              This will list all the firewallrules, depending on the account that you are using.

<tt>--keyword</tt>              Filters your result based on a keyword.

==== knife cs host list
Displays all hosts from the cloudstack environment.

<tt>--name</tt>                 Filters your output on the name that you specify.

==== knife cs iso list
Displays all iso's that are available within the cloudstack environment.

<tt>--listall</tt>              This will list all the iso's, depending on the account that you are using.

<tt>--keyword</tt>              Filters your result based on a keyword.

<tt>--name</tt>                 Filters your output on the name that you specify.

==== knife cs ostype list
Displays all the os types that are available within the cloudstack environment.

<tt>--keyword</tt>              Filters your output on the keyword that you specify.

==== knife cs oscategory list
Displays all os categories that are available 
<tt>--keyword</tt>              Filters your output on the keyword that you specify.

==== knife cs pod list
Displays all the pods that are currently available within the cloudstack environment.

<tt>--keyword</tt>              Filters your result based on a keyword.

<tt>--name</tt>                 Filters your output on the name that you specify.

==== knife cs project list
Displays all the projects that are within the cloudstack environment.

<tt>--listall</tt>              This will list all the projects, depending on the account that you are using.

<tt>--keyword</tt>              Filters your result based on a keyword.

<tt>--name</tt>                 Filters your output on the name that you specify.

==== knife cs publicip list
Displays all public ip's that are used within the cloudstack environment.

<tt>--listall</tt>              This will list all the public ip's, depending on the account that you are using.

==== knife cs router list
Displays all the routers that are within the cloudstack environment.

<tt>--listall</tt>              This will list all the routers, depending on the account that you are using.

<tt>--keyword</tt>              Filters your result based on a keyword.

<tt>--name</tt>                 Filters your output on the name that you specify.

==== knife cs user list
Displays all the users that are available within your account.

<tt>--listall</tt>              This will list all the users, depending on the account that you are using.

<tt>--keyword</tt>              Filters your output on the keyword that you specify.

==== knife cs volume list:
Displays all the volumes that are currently available within the cloudstack environment.

<tt>--listall</tt>              This will list all the volumes, depending on the account that you are using.

<tt>--keyword</tt>              Filters your output on the keyword that you specify.

<tt>--name</tt>                 Filters your output on the name that you specify.

=== knife cs stack create
Creates a "stack" of servers based on a JSON definition file. Simple orchestration can be performed by
specifying one or more actions to be executed after a server (or group of servers) is created.

==== Example Stack Definition File:

    {
      "name": "hadoop_cluster_a",
      "description": "A small hadoop cluster with hbase",
      "version": "1.0",
      "environment": "production",
      "servers": [
        {
          "name": "zookeeper-a, zookeeper-b, zookeeper-c",
          "description": "Zookeeper nodes",
          "template": "rhel-5.6-base",
          "service": "small",
          "port_rules": "2181",
          "run_list": "role[cluster_a], role[zookeeper_server]",
          "actions": [
            { "knife_ssh": ["role:zookeeper_server", "sudo chef-client"] }
          ]
        },
        {
          "name": "hadoop-master",
          "description": "Hadoop master node",
          "template": "rhel-5.6-base",
          "service": "large",
          "networks": "app-net, storage-net",
          "port_rules": "50070, 50030, 60010",
          "run_list": "role[cluster_a], role[hadoop_master], role[hbase_master]"
        },
        {
          "name": "hadoop-worker-a hadoop-worker-b hadoop-worker-c",
          "description": "Hadoop worker nodes",
          "template": "rhel-5.6-base",
          "service": "medium",
          "port_rules": "50075, 50060, 60030",
          "run_list": "role[cluster_a], role[hadoop_worker], role[hbase_regionserver]",
          "actions": [
            { "knife_ssh": ["role:hadoop_master", "sudo chef-client"] },
            { "http_request": "http://${hadoop-master}:50070/index.jsp" }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }

==== Stack Attributes
name:: Stack name. May be used in the future to e.g. look up a stack in a databag.
version:: Stack version. This attribute is not currently used.
environment:: Chef environment used for all servers in the stack.
servers:: List of servers to create.

==== Server Attributes
name:: The name of the new server. Specify a list of names separated by commas and/or spaces to create multiple servers.
description:: Server description.
template:: Cloudstack template name.
service:: Cloudstack service offering name.
port_rules:: Port forwarding rules for virtual networks. These are ignored when using direct or other network types.
run_list:: Chef run list.
actions:: List of actions to perform after the server (or group of servers) is created.

==== Actions
knife-ssh:: Performs a knife-ssh command. Takes the search query and the command to execute as an array of arguments.
http_request:: Performs an http request. Supports references to server names in the stack with ${server_name}.

==== Upcoming Actions
The following actions are under development:

runlist_add:: Adds an entry from the run list.
runlist_remove:: Removes an entry from the run list.

=== knife cs stack delete
Deletes all servers in the specified stack definition.

=== knife cs server start
Starts the specified virtual machine(s).

=== knife cs server stop
Stops the specified virtual machine(s). Force stop is optional.

=== knife cs server reboot
Reboots the specified virtual machines(s).

== LICENSE:

Author:: Ryan Holmes <rholmes@edmunds.com> 
Author:: KC Braunschweig <kcbraunschweig@gmail.com>
Author:: John E. Vincent <lusis.org+github.com@gmail.com>
Author:: Sander Botman <sbotman@schubergphilis.com>
Author:: Frank Breedijk <fbreedijk@schubergphilis.com>
Author:: Jeremy Baumont <jbaumont@schubergphilis.com>
Copyright:: Copyright (c) 2011 Edmunds, Inc.
License:: Apache License, Version 2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

